README.md, before:

# Wallet Analyzer

A TypeScript CLI utility that analyzes Ethereum addresses (or ENS names) by fetching real-time data and recent transaction history from public sources, then generates a comprehensive CSV report with detailed metrics including Tornado Cash exposure detection.

## Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root with the following content:
```bash
# Ethereum RPC Provider
# Option 1: Direct RPC URL
RPC_URL=https://eth-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_API_KEY

# Option 2: Alchemy API Key (will be used to build RPC URL)
# ALCHEMY_API_KEY=your_alchemy_api_key_here

# Etherscan API Key (required for transaction history)
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY=your_etherscan_api_key_here

# Covalent API Key (optional, for ERC-20 token balance fetching)
# COVALENT_API_KEY=your_covalent_api_key_here
```

Replace the placeholder values with your actual API keys:
- `RPC_URL` (or `ALCHEMY_API_KEY`) - Your Ethereum RPC provider URL or Alchemy API key
- `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` - Your Etherscan API key (get one at [etherscan.io/apis](https://etherscan.io/apis))
- `COVALENT_API_KEY` - (Optional) Your Covalent API key for ERC-20 token balance fetching (get one at [covalenthq.com](https://www.covalenthq.com/platform/auth/register/))

### 3. Run the Analyzer

**Development mode:**
```bash
npm run dev -- <addressOrEns>
```

**Production mode:**
```bash
npm run build
npm start -- <addressOrEns>
```

**Examples:**
```bash
# Analyze by address
npm start -- 0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb

# Analyze by ENS
npm start -- vitalik.eth

# Custom output file
npm start -- vitalik.eth --out custom_report.csv

# Custom analysis size
npm start -- vitalik.eth --n 500
```

## What It Does

The tool accepts an Ethereum address or ENS name, fetches the last N normal transactions (default: 200), computes various metrics including transaction patterns, ETH flow statistics, ERC-20 token holdings, and Tornado Cash counterparty exposure, then outputs a single-row CSV file with all the analysis results.

### Analysis Includes

- **Basics**: Balance, ENS name, contract status
- **ERC-20 Token Holdings**: Token count, top token symbols by USD value, total portfolio value
- **Transaction Overview**: Activity patterns, active days, transaction frequency
- **Transaction Types**: Breakdown of simple transfers, contract calls, and contract creations
- **ETH Flow**: Incoming/outgoing statistics, averages, medians, percentiles, dust detection
- **Tornado Counterparty Exposure**: Checks if any counterparties (EOAs) in the transaction history have directly interacted with Tornado Cash pools (24 pools monitored: ETH, DAI, USDC, USDT, WBTC, cDAI, cETH)

## Output

The tool generates a CSV file (default: `report_<address>.csv`) with a single row containing all computed metrics. The CSV contains **53 columns** organized into 6 sections.

## Documentation

### 📊 [CSV Columns Reference](./CSV_COLUMNS_REFERENCE.md)
Complete reference of all 53 CSV columns organized by section:
- **Section 1 — Basics** (10 columns): Address info, ENS, balance, contract status
- **Section 2 — ERC-20 Token Holdings** (3 columns): Token count, top symbols, USD value
- **Section 3 — Transaction Overview** (9 columns): Activity metrics, date ranges, frequency
- **Section 4 — Transaction Type Breakdown** (6 columns): Transfer types, contract interactions, ratios
- **Section 5 — ETH Flow** (18 columns): In/out statistics, percentiles, dust detection
- **Section 6 — Tornado Counterparty Exposure** (6 columns): Exposure detection metrics

### 📈 [Analysis Summary](./ANALYSIS_SUMMARY.md)
Summary of findings from sample wallet analyses, including:
- Direct Tornado Cash interaction detection
- Indirect exposure patterns through counterparty connections
- High-value wallet analysis examples
- Detection methodology and coverage details

## Analysis Scope

Metrics are computed over the **last N normal transactions** (default: 200) fetched from Etherscan. The analysis includes:

### Tornado Exposure Definition

The tool checks counterparties (unique addresses the subject interacted with) by:
1. Extracting all counterparties from the transaction history
2. Filtering to EOAs (Externally Owned Accounts, i.e., "users")
3. Capping the check to the first 25 EOAs (configurable)
4. For each checked counterparty, fetching their transaction history and checking if any transaction sent funds to a known Tornado Cash pool address

**Direct interactions** are also detected - if the subject address itself sent funds to a Tornado pool, this is logged separately.

## Build

To build for production:
```bash
npm run build
npm start -- <addressOrEns>
```

## Testing

Run the test suite:
```bash
npm test
```

Run tests in watch mode:
```bash
npm run test:watch
```

Run tests with coverage:
```bash
npm run test:coverage
```

## TODOs / Future Improvements

- [ ] Pagination beyond N transactions (currently limited to single API call)
- [ ] Internal transaction inclusion (currently only normal transactions)
- [ ] Better rate-limit backoff and retry logic for API calls
- [ ] Enrich transaction typing via logs/method selectors
- [ ] Caching on disk to reduce redundant API calls
- [ ] Support for other EVM chains/networks
- [ ] Parallel counterparty checks with better concurrency control

## License

ISC

Commit message:

Add direct Tornado exposure tracking to CSV output
- Add tornado_direct_exposure and tornado_direct_tx_count columns
- Distinguish between direct (subject address) and indirect (counterparty) exposure
- Update all documentation to reflect new columns
- Regenerate example CSV reports with new columns
- Total columns increased from 53 to 55

README.md, after:

# Wallet Analyzer

A TypeScript CLI utility that analyzes Ethereum addresses (or ENS names) by fetching real-time data and recent transaction history from public sources, then generates a comprehensive CSV report with detailed metrics including Tornado Cash exposure detection.

## Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

### 2. Configure Environment Variables

Create a `.env` file in the project root with the following content:
```bash
# Ethereum RPC Provider
# Option 1: Direct RPC URL
RPC_URL=https://eth-mainnet.g.alchemy.com/v2/YOUR_API_KEY

# Option 2: Alchemy API Key (will be used to build RPC URL)
# ALCHEMY_API_KEY=your_alchemy_api_key_here

# Etherscan API Key (required for transaction history)
ETHERSCAN_API_KEY=your_etherscan_api_key_here

# Covalent API Key (optional, for ERC-20 token balance fetching)
# COVALENT_API_KEY=your_covalent_api_key_here
```

Replace the placeholder values with your actual API keys:
- `RPC_URL` (or `ALCHEMY_API_KEY`) - Your Ethereum RPC provider URL or Alchemy API key
- `ETHERSCAN_API_KEY` - Your Etherscan API key (get one at [etherscan.io/apis](https://etherscan.io/apis))
- `COVALENT_API_KEY` - (Optional) Your Covalent API key for ERC-20 token balance fetching (get one at [covalenthq.com](https://www.covalenthq.com/platform/auth/register/))

### 3. Run the Analyzer

**Development mode:**
```bash
npm run dev -- <addressOrEns>
```

**Production mode:**
```bash
npm run build
npm start -- <addressOrEns>
```

**Examples:**
```bash
# Analyze by address
npm start -- 0x742d35Cc6634C0532925a3b844Bc9e7595f0bEb

# Analyze by ENS
npm start -- vitalik.eth

# Custom output file
npm start -- vitalik.eth --out custom_report.csv

# Custom analysis size
npm start -- vitalik.eth --n 500
```

## What It Does

The tool accepts an Ethereum address or ENS name, fetches the last N normal transactions (default: 200), computes various metrics including transaction patterns, ETH flow statistics, ERC-20 token holdings, and Tornado Cash counterparty exposure, then outputs a single-row CSV file with all the analysis results.

### Analysis Includes

- **Basics**: Balance, ENS name, contract status
- **ERC-20 Token Holdings**: Token count, top token symbols by USD value, total portfolio value
- **Transaction Overview**: Activity patterns, active days, transaction frequency
- **Transaction Types**: Breakdown of simple transfers, contract calls, and contract creations
- **ETH Flow**: Incoming/outgoing statistics, averages, medians, percentiles, dust detection
- **Tornado Exposure**: Detects both direct exposure (subject address sent funds to Tornado Cash pools) and indirect exposure (counterparties have interacted with Tornado Cash pools). Monitors 24 pools: ETH, DAI, USDC, USDT, WBTC, cDAI, cETH

## Output

The tool generates a CSV file (default: `report_<address>.csv`) with a single row containing all computed metrics. The CSV contains **55 columns** organized into 6 sections.

## Documentation

### 📊 [CSV Columns Reference](./CSV_COLUMNS_REFERENCE.md)
Complete reference of all 55 CSV columns organized by section:
- **Section 1 — Basics** (10 columns): Address info, ENS, balance, contract status
- **Section 2 — ERC-20 Token Holdings** (3 columns): Token count, top symbols, USD value
- **Section 3 — Transaction Overview** (9 columns): Activity metrics, date ranges, frequency
- **Section 4 — Transaction Type Breakdown** (6 columns): Transfer types, contract interactions, ratios
- **Section 5 — ETH Flow** (18 columns): In/out statistics, percentiles, dust detection
- **Section 6 — Tornado Exposure** (8 columns): Direct exposure (2 columns) and indirect exposure through counterparties (6 columns)

### 📈 [Analysis Summary](./ANALYSIS_SUMMARY.md)
Summary of findings from sample wallet analyses, including:
- Direct Tornado Cash interaction detection
- Indirect exposure patterns through counterparty connections
- High-value wallet analysis examples
- Detection methodology and coverage details

## Analysis Scope

Metrics are computed over the **last N normal transactions** (default: 200) fetched from Etherscan. The analysis includes:

### Tornado Exposure Definition

The tool detects Tornado Cash exposure in two ways:

**1. Direct Exposure:**
- Checks if the subject address itself sent funds directly to any known Tornado Cash pool
- Reported in `tornado_direct_exposure` (boolean) and `tornado_direct_tx_count` (number)

**2. Indirect Exposure (Counterparty Analysis):**
- Extracts all counterparties (unique addresses the subject interacted with)
- Filters to EOAs (Externally Owned Accounts, i.e., "users")
- Caps the check to the first 25 EOAs (configurable)
- For each checked counterparty, fetches their transaction history and checks if any transaction sent funds to a known Tornado Cash pool address
- Reported in `tornado_counterparty_exposure` and related counterparty metrics

Both direct and indirect exposure are tracked separately in the CSV output to provide clear visibility into the type of exposure detected.

## Build

To build for production:
```bash
npm run build
npm start -- <addressOrEns>
```

## Testing

Run the test suite:
```bash
npm test
```

Run tests in watch mode:
```bash
npm run test:watch
```

Run tests with coverage:
```bash
npm run test:coverage
```

## TODOs / Future Improvements

- [ ] Pagination beyond N transactions (currently limited to single API call)
- [ ] Internal transaction inclusion (currently only normal transactions)
- [ ] Better rate-limit backoff and retry logic for API calls
- [ ] Enrich transaction typing via logs/method selectors
- [ ] Caching on disk to reduce redundant API calls
- [ ] Support for other EVM chains/networks
- [ ] Parallel counterparty checks with better concurrency control

## License

ISC
